So it's time to go back to the code and
write our first service worker.
I'm in VS code and
now I'm going to create a new file.
It's JavaScript file, so
I'm going to create a new file,
I'm going to save that
file as serviceworker.js.
Typically we have only one
service worker per PWA.
As I mentioned before, you can have more
than one if they are in different folders.
That typically we don't
wanna mess with that.
So there are not so many use cases.
So we put the file in the root
folder of our project, and
we can call that sw JS,
or service worker JS,
any name we work, but
those are the typical names that we use.
And for now,
I'm just going to say console.log.
Hello from the ServiceWorker.
Just understand how this works.
It's a JavaScript file, but
we are not going to use it or
important as any other JavaScript.
So in the HTML,
then we are not going to run a script.
So this is wrong I'm not going
to call this script like this.
If we do this it will execute that
ServiceWorker file in the main thread and
we do not want that.
Okay so that's not how it works.
We actually need to register
the service worker with its own API.
So to do that I'm going to
create another normal standard
script just to separate these
from the current app behavior.
So we can call this sw-register.js,
SW ServiceWorker.
So I'm going to create that file
Ctrl click or Command click and here
I'm going to register the serviceworker
remember this is the main thread.
So to register a service worker,
we use navigator.serviceworker,
be careful with a capital
W there .register, and
it receives as the first argument,
the URL of the service worker.
So it's actually pretty simple.
serviceworker.js.
So we have,
like 8% of the users right now browsing
the web without support for
service workers.
And probably you already
know this at this point.
But what will happen if the service
worker API is not available?
This line will create an exception,
so it's a good idea to check for
service worker support
before registering the file.
To do that,
we can verify if the service worker
property is available in
the navigator option.
So if that's true then we
register the service worker.
Please warning here be careful with
in this case using camel case so
be careful with that capital W
because if not isn't gonna work.
Okay, so actually registering a service
worker is pretty simple is this.
So let's see this in action, and
back here in Google Chrome and
now we are going to pay attention
to the second section within
the application tab that says,
service workers.
So, if you click there right now,
nothing appears.
So we don't have any anything there
because we didn't have a serviceworker.
But now I'm going to refresh.
Whenever refreshing now you see
that something appears here,
we have a source, we have a timestamp.
Also we have the current status it
says it's activated and running.
And I can stop it if I want to.
Okay, so it's currently running.
If I go to the console,
you can see the message saying
hello from the service worker.
It's coming from the service worker JS.
Let me show you something.
If you are execute code here in the
console, by default, you're in the window.
But also you can click in the top
drop down and change the context.
And at the bottom you will find
the service workers context and
now if you do this you're
in the service worker.
So sometimes when you're in the dev
tools you can pick if you want to
execute code in the service worker thread.
Or in the main UI thread and when you're
in the service worker have in mind that
after a few seconds of inactivity
without any network activity,
your thread will be terminated.
So you will see in a couple of seconds
that serviceworker.js will actually not be
there anymore and he will disappear.
It's still active area, but
at one point, it will just disappear.
Okay so that also means that
the service worker is not
the right place to put some content or
some logic.
For example,
if you want to communicate with a server,
like with a web socket or something
like that, this is not the right place,
because after 40 seconds of inactivity,
your serviceworker is dead.
So we don't want that so have in mind
this the lifecycle of the service worker.
So now we do have a service worker but
that doesn't mean that our app
is passing the criteria in fact
going back to application manifest?
Now, we don't have
the message saying that,
that there is no serviceworker
because we have a serviceworker.
But the page doesn't work offline.
So we have a serviceworker but
it's completely useless at this point.